<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<!--
  Within the sample documentation, where necessary, the texts describing the usage of each component have been copied
  directly from the official Bootstrap 5.3 documentation (found at https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3), however DITA
  markup is used throughout the examples describing how to implement these components correctly using outputclass.

  This work is a derivative of "Bootstrap 5.3 docs" by Twitter, Inc. and the Bootstrap Authors,
  and used under CC BY 3.0. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable licenses.
-->
<topic id="collapse">
  <title>Collapse</title>
  <shortdesc>Toggle the visibility of content across your project with a few classes and Bootstrap’s JavaScript
    plugin.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm>Collapse</indexterm>
        <indexterm>CSS
          <indexterm><xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt></indexterm>
        </indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>bodydiv</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>xref</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>props</xmlatt></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlatt>otherprops</xmlatt></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body outputclass="language-markup">
    <section>
      <title>How it works</title>
      <p>The collapse JavaScript plugin is used to show and hide content. Buttons or anchors are used as triggers that
        are mapped to specific elements you toggle. Collapsing an element will animate the height from its current value
        to 0. Given how CSS handles animations, you cannot use padding on a .collapse element. Instead, use the class as
        an independent wrapping element.</p>
    </section>
    <section>
      <title>Example</title>
      <p>Below is a collapsed example that is displayed when the button is clicked. Add
          <xmlatt>props="collapse-toggle"</xmlatt> to an <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement> element to associate a button to
        a collapse</p>
    </section>
    <bodydiv outputclass="bd-example" deliveryTarget="html">
      <p>
        <xref outputclass="btn-primary" props="collapse-toggle" href="#collapse1">Toggle Collapse</xref>
      </p>
      <bodydiv outputclass="collapse" id="collapse1">
        <div outputclass="card card-body">
          <p>Some placeholder content for the collapse component. This panel is hidden by default but revealed when the
            user activates the relevant trigger.</p>
        </div>
      </bodydiv>
    </bodydiv>
    <codeblock>&lt;p&gt;
  &lt;xref outputclass="btn-primary" props="collapse-toggle" href="#collapse1"&gt;
    Toggle Collapse
  &lt;/xref&gt;
&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;bodydiv outputclass="collapse" id="collapse1"&gt;
  &lt;div outputclass="card card-body"&gt;
      &lt;p&gt;Some placeholder content for the collapse component. This panel is hidden by default but revealed when the user activates the relevant trigger.&lt;/p&gt;
  &lt;/div&gt;
&lt;/bodydiv&gt;</codeblock>
    <section>
      <title>Horizontal</title>
      <p>The collapse plugin also supports horizontal collapsing. Add <xmlatt>outputclass="collapse-horizontal"</xmlatt>
        to transition the width instead of height and set an <xmlatt>otherprops="style(width: ...)</xmlatt> on the
        immediate child <xmlelement>div</xmlelement> element.</p>
    </section>
    <bodydiv outputclass="bd-example" deliveryTarget="html">
      <p>
        <xref outputclass="btn-primary" props="collapse-toggle" href="#collapse2">Toggle Width Collapse</xref>
      </p>
      <bodydiv outputclass="collapse-horizontal" id="collapse2" otherprops="style(min-height: 120px;)">
        <div outputclass="card card-body" otherprops="style(width: 300px;)">
          <p>Some placeholder content for the collapse component. This is some placeholder content for a horizontal
            collapse. It’s hidden by default and shown when triggered.</p>
        </div>
      </bodydiv>
    </bodydiv>
    <codeblock>&lt;p&gt;
  &lt;xref outputclass="btn-primary" props="collapse-toggle" href="#collapse2"&gt;Toggle Width Collapse&lt;/xref&gt;
&lt;/p&gt;
&lt;bodydiv outputclass="collapse-horizontal" id="collapse2" otherprops="style(min-height: 120px;)"&gt;
  &lt;div outputclass="card card-body" otherprops="style(width: 300px;)"&gt;
    &lt;p&gt;This is some placeholder content for a horizontal collapse. It’s hidden by default and shown when triggered.&lt;/p&gt;
  &lt;/div&gt;
&lt;/bodydiv&gt;</codeblock>
  </body>
</topic>
