<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<!--
  Within the sample documentation, where necessary, the texts describing the usage of each component have been copied
  directly from the official Bootstrap 5.3 documentation (found at https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3), however DITA
  markup is used throughout the examples describing how to implement these components correctly using outputclass.

  This work is a derivative of "Bootstrap 5.3 docs" by Twitter, Inc. and the Bootstrap Authors,
  and used under CC BY 3.0. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable licenses.
-->
<topic id="popovers">
  <title>Popovers</title>
  <shortdesc>Documentation and examples for adding Bootstrap popovers, like those found in iOS, to any element on your
    site.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><parmname>--popovers.include</parmname></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Popovers</indexterm>
        <indexterm>CSS
          <indexterm><xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt></indexterm>
        </indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>desc</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>title</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>data</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>xref</xmlelement></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body outputclass="language-markup">
    <section>
      <title>Overview</title>
      <p>Things to know when using the tooltip plugin:</p>
      <ul>
        <li>Popovers rely on the third-party library
          <xref href="https://popper.js.org" format="html" scope="external">Popper</xref> for positioning.</li>
        <li>Popovers with a zero-length <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> element are never displayed.</li>
        <li>Triggering popovers on hidden elements will not work.</li>
        <li>Popovers for <xmlatt>outputclass="disabled"</xmlatt> elements must be triggered on a wrapper element.</li>
        <li>Popovers must be hidden before their corresponding elements have been removed from the DOM.</li>
        <li>Popovers can be triggered thanks to an element inside a shadow DOM.</li>
        <li>Popovers are include by default, but for performance reasons, <b
          >you may exclude them yourself</b> by setting
            <parmname>--popovers.include</parmname>=<option>no</option>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section deliveryTarget="html">
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>Keep reading to see how popovers work with some examples.</p>
    </section>

    <bodydiv outputclass="bd-example" deliveryTarget="html">
      <xref href="#" outputclass="btn-lg btn-danger popover-top">
        <data name="title">Popover title</data>
        <desc>And here’s some amazing content. It’s very engaging. Right?</desc> Click to toggle popover </xref>
    </bodydiv>
    <codeblock> &lt;xref href="#" outputclass="btn-lg btn-danger popover-top"&gt;
  &lt;data name="title">&gt;Popover title&lt;/data&gt;
  &lt;desc&gt;And here’s some amazing content. It’s very engaging. Right?&lt;/desc&gt;
  Click to toggle popover
&lt;/xref&gt;</codeblock>

    <section>
      <title>Four directions</title>
      <p>Four options are available: <codeph>top</codeph>, <codeph>right</codeph>, <codeph>bottom</codeph>, and
          <codeph>left</codeph> aligned. Directions are mirrored when using Bootstrap in RTL. To enable popovers, add
          <xmlatt>output-class="popover-*"</xmlatt> to the enclosing <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement>. The direction of the
        popover is appended to the <xmlatt>output-class</xmlatt>.</p>
    </section>
    <bodydiv outputclass="bd-example" deliveryTarget="html">
      <xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary popover-top">
        <desc>Top popover</desc> Popover on top </xref>
      <xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary popover-right">
        <desc>Right Popover</desc> Popover on right </xref>
      <xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary popover-bottom">
        <desc>Bottom popover</desc> Popover on bottom </xref>
      <xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary popover-left">
        <desc>Left popover</desc> Popover on left </xref>
    </bodydiv>
    <codeblock>&lt;xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary popover-top"&gt;
  &lt;desc&gt;Top popover&lt;/desc&gt;
  Popover on top
&lt;/xref&gt;
&lt;xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary popover-right"&gt;
  &lt;desc&gt;Right Popover&lt;/desc&gt;
  Popover on right
&lt;/xref&gt;
&lt;xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary popover-bottom"&gt;
  &lt;desc&gt;Bottom popover&lt;/desc&gt;
  Popover on bottom
&lt;/xref&gt;
&lt;xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary popover-left"&gt;
  &lt;desc&gt;Left popover&lt;/desc&gt;
  Popover on left
&lt;/xref&gt;</codeblock>
    <section>
      <title>Custom popovers</title>
      <p>You can customize the appearance of popovers using CSS variables.
        We set a custom class with <codeph
        >&lt;data name="class"&gt;custom-popover&lt;data&gt;</codeph> to scope our custom
        appearance and use it to override some of the local CSS variables.</p>
      <codeblock outputclass="language-css">.custom-popover {
  --bs-popover-max-width: 200px;
  --bs-popover-border-color: var(--bs-primary);
  --bs-popover-header-bg: var(--bs-primary);
  --bs-popover-header-color: var(--bs-white);
  --bs-popover-body-padding-x: 1rem;
  --bs-popover-body-padding-y: .5rem;
}</codeblock>
    </section>
    <bodydiv outputclass="bd-example" deliveryTarget="html">
        <xref href="#" outputclass="btn-lg btn-danger popover-top">
          <data name="title">Popover title</data>
          <data name="class">custom-popover</data>
          <desc>And here’s some amazing content. It’s very engaging. Right?</desc>Custom popover</xref>
    </bodydiv>
    <codeblock>&lt;xref href="#" outputclass="btn-lg btn-danger popover-top"&gt;
  &lt;data name="title"&gt;Popover title&lt;/data&gt;
  &lt;data name="class"&gt;custom-popover&lt;/data&gt;
  &lt;desc&gt;And here’s some amazing content. It’s very engaging. Right?&lt;/desc&gt;
  Custom popover
&lt;/xref&gt;</codeblock>
  </body>
</topic>
