<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE topic PUBLIC "-//OASIS//DTD DITA Topic//EN" "topic.dtd">
<!--
  Within the sample documentation, where necessary, the texts describing the usage of each component have been copied
  directly from the official Bootstrap 5.3 documentation (found at https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3), however DITA
  markup is used throughout the examples describing how to implement these components correctly using outputclass.

  This work is a derivative of "Bootstrap 5.3 docs" by Twitter, Inc. and the Bootstrap Authors,
  and used under CC BY 3.0. See the accompanying LICENSE file for applicable licenses.
-->
<topic id="tooltips">
  <title>Tooltips</title>
  <shortdesc>Documentation and examples for adding custom Bootstrap tooltips with CSS and JavaScript using CSS3 for
    animations and <codeph>data-bs-attributes</codeph> for local title storage.</shortdesc>
  <prolog>
    <metadata>
      <keywords>
        <indexterm><parmname>--popovers.include</parmname></indexterm>
        <indexterm>Tooltips</indexterm>
        <indexterm>CSS
          <indexterm><xmlatt>outputclass</xmlatt></indexterm>
        </indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>desc</xmlelement></indexterm>
        <indexterm><xmlelement>xref</xmlelement></indexterm>
      </keywords>
    </metadata>
  </prolog>
  <body outputclass="language-markup">
    <section>
      <title>Overview</title>
      <p>Things to know when using the tooltip plugin: </p>
      <ul>
        <li>Tooltips rely on the third-party library
          <xref href="https://popper.js.org" format="html" scope="external">Popper</xref> for positioning.</li>
        <li>Tooltips with a zero-length <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement> element are never displayed.</li>
        <li>Triggering tooltips on hidden elements will not work.</li>
        <li>Tooltips for <xmlatt>outputclass="disabled"</xmlatt> elements must be triggered on a wrapper element.</li>
        <li>Tooltips must be hidden before their corresponding elements have been removed from the DOM.</li>
        <li>Tooltips can be triggered thanks to an element inside a shadow DOM.</li>
        <li>Tooltips are included by default, but for performance reasons, <b
          >you may exclude them yourself</b> by setting
            <parmname>--popovers.include</parmname>=<option>no</option>.</li>
      </ul>
    </section>

    <section deliveryTarget="html">
      <title>Examples</title>
      <p>Hover over the links below to see tooltips:</p>
    </section>

    <bodydiv outputclass="bd-example" deliveryTarget="html">
      <p>Placeholder text to demonstrate some
        <xref href="#" outputclass="tooltip-top">inline links <desc>Default tooltip</desc></xref> with tooltips. This is
        now just filler, no killer. Content placed here just to mimic the presence of
        <xref href="#" outputclass="tooltip-top">real text<desc>Another tooltip</desc></xref>. And all that just to give
        you an idea of how tooltips would look when used in real-world situations. So hopefully you've now seen how
        <xref href="#" outputclass="tooltip-top">these tooltips on links<desc>Another one here too</desc></xref> can
        work in practice, once you use them on
        <xref href="#" outputclass="tooltip-top">your own<desc>The last tip!</desc></xref> site or project.</p>
    </bodydiv>

    <p>To enable tooltips, add <xmlatt>output-class="tooltip-*"</xmlatt> to the enclosing
      <xmlelement>xref</xmlelement>. The direction of the tooltip is appended to the <xmlatt>output-class</xmlatt>.</p>
    <p>Hover over the buttons below to see the four tooltips directions: <codeph>top</codeph>, <codeph>right</codeph>,
        <codeph>bottom</codeph>, and <codeph>left</codeph>. Directions are mirrored when using Bootstrap in RTL.</p>
    <bodydiv outputclass="bd-example" deliveryTarget="html">
      <xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary tooltip-top">
        <desc>Tooltip on top</desc> Tooltip on top </xref>
      <xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary tooltip-right">
        <desc>Tooltip on right</desc> Tooltip on right </xref>
      <xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary tooltip-bottom">
        <desc>Tooltip on bottom</desc> Tooltip on bottom </xref>
      <xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary tooltip-left">
        <desc>Tooltip on left</desc> Tooltip on left </xref>
      <codeblock>&lt;xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary tooltip-top"&gt;
  &lt;desc&gt;Tooltip on top&lt;/desc&gt;
  Tooltip on top
&lt;/xref&gt;
&lt;xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary tooltip-right"&gt;
  &lt;desc&gt;Tooltip on right&lt;/desc&gt;
  Tooltip on right
&lt;/xref&gt;
&lt;xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary tooltip-bottom"&gt;
  &lt;desc&gt;Tooltip on bottom&lt;/desc&gt;
  Tooltip on bottom
&lt;/xref&gt;
&lt;xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary tooltip-left"&gt;
  &lt;desc&gt;Tooltip on left&lt;/desc&gt;
  Tooltip on left
&lt;/xref&gt;</codeblock>
      <p>Custom HTML can be added to tooltips using additional DITA elements within the <xmlelement>desc</xmlelement>
      </p>
      <xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary tooltip-top">
        <desc><b>Tooltip</b>
          <u>with</u>
          <b>DITA</b> elements</desc> Tooltip with embedded DITA </xref>
    </bodydiv>
    <codeblock>&lt;xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary tooltip-top"&gt;
  &lt;desc&gt;&lt;b&gt;Tooltip&lt;/b&gt; &lt;u&gt;with&amp;lt;/u&gt; &lt;b&gt;DITA&lt;/b&gt; elements&lt;/desc&gt;
  Tooltip with embedded DITA
&lt;/xref&gt;</codeblock>
    <section>
      <title>Custom tooltips</title>
      <p>You can customize the appearance of tooltips using CSS variables. We set a custom class with <codeph
        >&lt;data name="class"&gt;custom-tooltip&lt;data&gt;</codeph>  to scope our custom appearance and use it to override a local CSS variable.</p>
    </section>
    <codeblock outputclass="language-css">.custom-tooltip {
  --bs-tooltip-bg: var(--bs-primary);
}</codeblock>
    <bodydiv outputclass="bd-example" deliveryTarget="html">
      <xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary tooltip-top">
        <data name="class">custom-tooltip</data>
        <desc>This top tooltip is themed via CSS variables.</desc>
        Custom tooltip
      </xref>
    </bodydiv>
    <codeblock>&lt;xref href="#" outputclass="btn-secondary tooltip-top"&gt;
  &lt;data name="class"&gt;custom-tooltip&lt;/data&gt;
  &lt;desc&gt;This top tooltip is themed via CSS variables.&lt;/desc&gt;
  Custom tooltip
&lt;/xref&gt;</codeblock>
  </body>
</topic>
